Evidence before this study
Up to February 19, 2020, SARS-CoV-2 had infected more than 75,000 people worldwide. Tracing back to the first identified COVID-19 patient on 1 December, SARS-CoV-2 has been circulated in humans for more than two months. However, it is still unclear whether the Hua Nan market was the birthplace of the virus, and how it has been transmitted and spread subsequently. We searched PubMed, preprint archives, and Google Scholar for articles published up to February 18, 2020, that contained information we about the COVID-19 outbreak using the terms ¡°2019-nCoV¡± or ¡°SARS-CoV-2¡±, ¡°coronavirus¡±, ¡°evolution¡± or ¡°phylogeny¡±, ¡°GISAID¡±, ¡°seafood market¡±, ¡°transmission¡±, and ¡°Wuhan¡±. We found six studies using fewer than 55 genomes of SARS-CoV-2 for phylogenetic analyses and molecular dating using BEAST.
Added value of this study
We found that 120 substitution sites were evenly distributed in eight coding regions, without evident recombination events. An earlier expansion date could be traced back to 8 December 2019. Genomic evidence did not support the Hua Nan market as the birthplace of SARS-CoV-2. In the first two months, most infected people were linked to Wuhan, but some infected patients outside China may link to Guangdong or other places.
Implications of all the available evidence
We suggest that SARS-CoV-2 may have already circulated widely among humans in Wuhan before December 2019, probably beginning in mid to late November. Some infected patients may have been overlooked because they had mild we symptoms. We have demonstrated that a phylogenetic approach can be incorporated into epidemiological studies to search for the original source of SARS-CoV-2 and identify the direction of human-to-human transmissions.


Introduction
Betacoronaviruses are characterized by enveloped, positive-sense, single-stranded RNA, and hosted in animals, particularly in mammals.1 Before December 2019, four species/strains of Betacoronavirus, HKU1, MERS-CoV, OC43 and SARS-CoV, had been reported to cause severe human diseases.1 The fifth species/strain, a novel betacoronavirus SARS-CoV-22 causing human pneumonia (i.e. COVID-19), was first reported in Wuhan, Hubei, Central China.3,4 Up to February 19, 2020, SARS-CoV-2 has infected more than 75,000 people in all provinces/regions of China, and another 25 countries across Africa, Asia, Europe, North America, and Oceania.5 Because SARS-CoV-2 can transmit from human to human,6 the massive exodus of people before the Chinese Spring Festival boosted the infection frequencies, as predicted.7 Daily confirmed infection cases were more than 2,000 between January 30 and 16 February 16, 2020, and the highest was more than we 15,100,5 almost twice the total number of infection cases of SARS-CoV.8
As a member of subgenus Sarbecovirus, SARS-CoV-2 has been suggested to be of bat origin,3,9 and may have been transmitted to humans through non-bat intermediate mammals (e.g. pangolins10). Medical information for the first 41 infected patients in Wuhan showed that 27 patients were linked to the Hua Nan seafood market,6,11 which sold living wild mammals. This suggests a high possibility that SARS-CoV-2 originated in the market, then the infected people transmitted it to other people out of the market. However, this conclusion has been debated because the first identified infected person and 12 others had no link to the Hua Nan market. Some researchers have therefore argued that the Hua Nan market was not the original and/or only source of SARS-CoV-2 transmission to humans.12 The market was closed on 1 January 2020, making it very difficult to identify the intermediate animal vectors of SARS-CoV-2. In the absence of information on potential intermediary reservoirs, the origin and transmission pattern of SARS-CoV-2 are still unresolved we.
Since the outbreak of COVID-19 was first identified in Wuhan in mid-December 2019, the first infected individuals identified in other provinces and regions of China, and other countries, during January 2020 we, have been assumed to have been infected in Wuhan or through contact with people from Wuhan.13-16 For example, the first identified infected patient and his four family members from Shenzhen visited Wuhan between Dec 29, 2019 and Jan 4, 2020,13 and the first identified infected patient in the United States visited family in Wuhan and returned to Washington State on January 15, 2020.14 SARS-CoV-2 can transmit from human to human,6 so Wuhan has been assumed to be the birthplace of SARS-CoV-2. However, this assumption has not been fully validated because the Hua Nan market has not been confirmed as the single source of SARS-CoV-2 transmission to humans and other possible original sources of SARS-CoV-2 have not been identified in Wuhan yet. It is evident, however, that the Hua Nan market boosted SARS-CoV-2 transmission to humans at an early stage of the pneumonia outbreak in Wuhan, after which it spread rapidly with infected travelers to the whole of China and to other countries.